Jack and the
Beanst alk
Jack and the
Beanst alkOnce upon a time, there lived a boy called Jack. He 
lived in a cottage with his mother and their most 
valuable possession was a cow called Daisy. Daisy 
provided fresh milk for Jack and his mother every 
day. They loved her very much.
1Sadly, the day came when Jack and his mother 
had no money left. Jack’s mother told him that he 
would have to take Daisy to the market to sell her. 
Jack was distraught but he knew that they had 
no choice. He set off to market with Daisy, feeling 
very sorrowful. 
2On the way to market, Jack met a man. The man 
had a large, curly moustache and was wearing a 
sparkly yellow cloak. He stared with interest at 
Daisy and then said, “What a fine cow you have 
there, Jack!”
3“How do you know my name?” asked Jack, confused.
“I know a lot of things,” chuckled the mysterious 
man. “For example, I know that these beans that I 
hold in my hand have magical powers.”
4“I will give you these incredible beans in exchange 
for your cow,” suggested the man. “When you 
plant them, they will grow right up to the sky 
within just a few hours!”
“Oh no,” replied Jack, “Daisy is all my mother 
and I have and I must get a good price for her at 
market today.”
5“With these beans, you will never have to worry 
about money again,” said the man persuasively.
At last, Jack gave in and swapped Daisy for  
the beans. 
6When Jack arrived back at his house, he skipped 
excitedly into the kitchen.
“Are you back already, Jack?” asked his mother.  
“I do hope you got a good price for Daisy.”
“Better than that, Mother,” sang Jack. “I have 
magical beans!”
7He started to explain about the man he had met but 
his mother was not listening. She was extremely 
angry. She took the beans and threw them out of 
the window. 
8Jack was sent to his bedroom. He lay down on his 
bed and cried himself to sleep.
9The next morning, Jack woke up and noticed that 
his bedroom was much darker than usual. A shadow 
fell across the room. He ran outside to investigate.
10Jack was astounded by 
what he saw in his garden. 
Overnight, the beans had 
grown into a gigantic beanstalk. It was 
thicker than the trunk of an ancient 
tree and covered in healthy green 
leaves. It was the most amazing plant 
that he had ever seen! 
11The beanstalk went up high into 
the clouds. He could not see the 
top of it.
“I will climb this beanstalk,” said 
Jack, feeling determined. 
12Jack was fit and strong and started to climb the 
beanstalk with ease. However, the higher he climbed, 
the harder it got to find things that he could grab 
on to. Soon, his limbs started to tire. “I must go on,” 
he said to himself firmly. He grasped the beanstalk 
and climbed higher up into the clouds. Eventually, 
he reached the very top. 
13Jack saw an enormous castle. As he 
stepped closer, he realised that even the 
door was far bigger than any he had ever 
seen before. It had been left slightly ajar 
and Jack was able to sneak inside. 
14Jack stared in amazement. All of the furniture was 
huge! The chairs and tables towered above him like 
skyscrapers. There was a bowl of water on the floor 
for a cat or a dog to drink from but it was so big 
that Jack could have bathed in it!
15Suddenly, the floor beneath Jack’s feet began to 
shake and Jack heard a loud rumbling noise. His 
heart was beating loudly in his chest as he scurried 
quickly inside a cupboard to hide. 
16A colossal giant marched into the room. Jack peered 
nervously through a hole in the cupboard door. The 
giant’s face was covered by a bushy brown beard. 
He had rosy cheeks and there was not one single 
hair on the top of his head.
“Fee! Fi! Fo! Fum! I 
smell the blood of an 
Englishman,” bellowed 
the giant menacingly. 
Jack shivered with fear. 
17The terrifying giant sat down at the table. On the 
table was a hen and a golden harp. The glittering 
harp caught Jack’s eye and, although he was 
petrified, he watched with fascination. 
18“Lay,” said the giant and the hen laid an egg. The 
egg was made of solid gold. Jack was mesmerised 
by the bright, shining egg as he watched through 
the hole in the cupboard door. 
19“Sing,” said the giant and the harp sang. A beautiful, 
calming song came out of the harp and it seemed to 
cast a sort of spell over the giant because he soon 
fell asleep. 
20When Jack was certain that the 
giant was fully asleep, he crept 
out from his hiding place and 
skilfully climbed up the table leg 
and onto the table top. He grabbed 
the hen and the harp and made a 
daring leap down to the ground. 
21The hen nestled happily under 
Jack’s arm but the harp was 
alarmed to be grabbed by 
a stranger. As Jack headed 
towards the door, the harp 
cried, “Help, master!”
22The harp’s shouting woke up the 
snoozing giant. He jumped up 
from his chair and spotted Jack. 
“Fee! Fi! Fo! Fum! I smell the blood 
of an Englishman!” he roared.
23The giant started to chase Jack. Jack didn’t stop 
to look behind him. He ran with all his might. The 
giant got closer and closer. The giant’s strides were 
vast so he was able to catch up with Jack quickly. 
24Jack reached the beanstalk and started to climb 
back down it. He was breathing very quickly and 
his heart was racing. It was not easy climbing 
down the beanstalk while holding on to a hen and 
a harp. The beanstalk shook. Jack looked upwards.  
The giant had got onto the beanstalk and was 
climbing down after him! 
2526When Jack reached the bottom of the beanstalk, he 
stumbled onto the ground, utterly exhausted. “Help!” 
he shouted at the top of his voice. He knew that the 
giant wasn’t far behind him. 
27Jack’s mother came rushing towards the beanstalk 
with an axe in her hands. Without hesitation, she 
sprinted to the base of the beanstalk and began 
chopping at it frantically. 
28The beanstalk began to wobble and a loud cry came 
from above them. The giant fell and crashed to the 
ground. He was never seen again. 
29Jack hugged his mother. “Thank you,” he smiled, 
still out of breath and shaking all over.
“I’m so glad to have you back, Jack,” she whispered, 
looking at him lovingly.
30Jack’s mother was delighted to see the golden 
harp and the hen. The harp now seemed 
happy to call Jack his new master 
and the hen quickly started to lay 
golden eggs on Jack’s command. In 
fact, Jack was able to sell the golden 
eggs to buy Daisy back. They didn’t have to 
worry about having enough money again and 
they all lived happily ever after. 
3132See how this story can support your teaching at twinkl.com/ planitIf this story took your class’s breath away, just wait until you 
discover the classroom-ready resources at Twinkl PlanIt. 
Harness the excitement by using detailed lesson plans, creative and 
differentiated activities, assessments, displays and more – all linked 
to this story! 
The Story Continues!
Let these characters inspire learning through a range 
of supportive resources.Poor Jack is upset when he is forced 
to sell his beloved cow, Daisy, but the 
magic beans he accepts in exchange for 
her take him on a journey of adventure.
Will Jack and his mother live happily 
ever after? Find out in this exciting 
version of a classic fairy tale. 
Discover our teaching resources
Keep the story alive using our amazing linked teaching resources, all available through Twinkl PlanIt. 
Learn more at twinkl.com/planit
